# Candlepin containers for gating tests
This folder contains docker configurations for running Candlepin & Postgresql containers with preloaded test data.
They are used for subscription-manager gating tests to be run against. The scripts here use docker stack, and podman, so docker-compose is not required to use this. The build script is supposed to be triggered automatically via jenkins [[1]](https://github.com/candlepin/candlepin-jobs).
Note: The building/running scripts of these images are not configurable, because they are not supposed to be used as a development environment. 

## Building
The `build.sh` script is used for building a Candlepin image of the latest Candlepin version currently running in stage, and a corresponding postgresql image with preloaded test data.
The images (`cp_latest_stage` & `cp_postgres`) are then pushed to the internal registry [[2]](https://registry-console.engineering.redhat.com/registry#/images/candlepin).
It uses `docker` to build images & `docker stack` to run intermediate images.
Note: You might need to run this with sudo.
```bash
./build.sh
```

## Running
Downloads the `cp_latest_stage` & `cp_postgres` from the registry, and runs them.
It uses `podman` instead of `docker`, and will create a pod in which both containers are part of, and has candlepin's 8443 port exposed to the host.
Notes: This requires sudo to run. Also, creates an SELinux policy to avoid a denial when postgresql is trying to read the hosts file.
```bash
sudo ./run.sh
```

### Stopping the deployment
If you would like to stop and remove the pod & its containers, you can run the following:
Note: This requires sudo to run.
```bash
sudo podman pod rm -f cp_pod
```
